File system
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the way computers organise data stored on media such as disk. For library and office filing systems, see Library classification.
Operating systems
 Operating system placement.svg
About this image
Common features
Process management Interrupts Memory management File system Device drivers Networking Security I/O
v t e
In computing, a file system or filesystem is used to control how data is stored and retrieved. Without a file system, information placed in a storage medium would be one large body of data with no way to tell where one piece of information stops and the next begins. By separating the data into pieces and giving each piece a name, the information is easily isolated and identified. Taking its name from the way paper-based information systems are named, each group of data is called a "file". The structure and logic rules used to manage the groups of information and their names is called a "file system".

There are many different kinds of file systems. Each one has different structure and logic, properties of speed, flexibility, security, size and more. Some file systems have been designed to be used for specific applications. For example, the ISO 9660 file system is designed specifically for optical discs.

File systems can be used on numerous different types of storage devices that use different kinds of media. The most common storage device in use today is a hard disk drive. Other kinds of media that are used include flash memory, magnetic tapes, and optical discs. In some cases, such as with tmpfs, the computer's main memory (random-access memory, RAM) is used to create a temporary file system for short-term use.

Some file systems are used on local data storage devices;[1] others provide file access via a network protocol (for example, NFS,[2] SMB, or 9P clients). Some file systems are "virtual", meaning that the supplied "files" (called virtual files) are computed on request (e.g. procfs) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store. The file system manages access to both the content of files and the metadata about those files. It is responsible for arranging storage space; reliability, efficiency, and tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations.

Origin of the term[edit]
Before the advent of computers the term file system was used to describe a method of storing and retrieving paper documents.[3] By 1961 the term was being applied to computerized filing alongside the original meaning.[4] By 1964 it was in general use.[5]

Architecture[edit]
A file system consists of two or three layers. Sometimes the layers are explicitly separated, and sometimes the functions are combined.[6]

The logical file system is responsible for interaction with the user application. It provides the application program interface (API) for file operations — OPEN, CLOSE, READ, etc., and passes the requested operation to the layer below it for processing. The logical file system "manage[s] open file table entries and per-process file descriptors."[7] This layer provides "file access, directory operations, [and] security and protection."[6]

The second optional layer is the virtual file system. "This interface allows support for multiple concurrent instances of physical file systems, each of which is called a file system implementation."[7]

The third layer is the physical file system. This layer is concerned with the physical operation of the storage device (e.g.disk). It processes physical blocks being read or written. It handles buffering and memory management and is responsible for the physical placement of blocks in specific locations on the storage medium. The physical file system interacts with the device drivers or with the channel to drive the storage device.[6]
